README.md, before:

# powerpkg

A Windows package deployment script with an emphasis on simplicity and standardization. Written in PowerShell.

## Section
1. [Requirement](#requirement)
2. [Philosophy](#philosophy)
3. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
4. [How It Works](#how-it-works)
5. [Package File](#package-file)
  - [TaskName](#taskname)
  - [Executable](#executable)
  - [OperatingSystem](#operatingsystem)
  - [Architecture](#architecture)
  - [TerminateProcess](#terminateprocess)
  - [TerminateMessage](#terminatemessage)
  - [SuccessExitCode](#successexitcode)
  - [ContinueIfFail](#continueiffail)
  - [VerifyInstall](#verifyinstall)
6. [Script Configuration](#script-configuration)
7. [Debugging](#debugging)
8. [License](#license)
9. [Additional Comments](#additional-comments)

## Requirement

Before reading through this documentation, please note that a minimum of **PowerShell 2.0** is required to utilize this project. However, PowerShell 3.0 or higher is recommended.

## Philosophy

**One** script to perform **all** functions.

The sole purpose of powerpkg is to enable maintainability when managing package deployments on the Windows platform. This allows an administrator to consolidate an unsustainable collection of unique scripts into one PowerShell script.

## Getting Started

To begin test driving powerpkg:

**(1)**: Clone this repository or download it as a ZIP file.

**(2)**: Invoke `powerpkg.ps1`:
```shell
powershell.exe -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -File "example_package\powerpkg.ps1"
```

**(3)**: *And that's it!*

> **NOTE**:
>
> For more information on the usage of both `package.json` and `package.csv`, refer to the [Package File](#package-file) segment of this README.
>
> To discover basic usage of powerpkg, refer to the [How It Works](#how-it-works) segment of this README.

## How It Works

**(1)**: Create one of the following [package files](#package-file):

  - **`package.json` (PowerShell 3.0+):**
  ```json
  [
      {
          "TaskName": "Example Task Entry",
          "Executable": "powershell.exe Write-Output \"Hello, World!\""
      }
  ]
  ```
  
  - **`package.csv` (PowerShell 2.0):**
  ```
  TaskName,Executable
  "Example Task Entry","powershell.exe Write-Output ""Hello, World!"""
  ```

**(2)**: Create `powerpkg.conf`, the script configuration file, with the following content:
```
BlockHost
PackageName "Example Package"
SuppressNotification False
```

**(3)**: Invoke `powerpkg.ps1`:
```shell
powershell.exe -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -File "powerpkg.ps1"
```

**(4)**: As `powerpkg.ps1` is running, you will notice output similar to the following example:
```
Initiating Package (Example Package):

Host                       : examplehost1
Operating System (Windows) : 6.3
Userspace Architecture     : AMD64
User                       : misterpeguero

----

Configuration Importation  : True
Suppress Notification      : False

----

(1) Example Task Entry:
[powershell.exe Write-Output "Hello, World!"]

Hello, World!

OK: (0)

----

Package Results (Example Package):

Tasks Processed : 1
 ^
 |
 |---- Success : 1
 +---- Failure : 0

OK: (0)
```
**(5)**: *And that's it!*

> **NOTE**:
>
> To discover in-depth usage of powerpkg, refer to the [Package File](#package-file) and [Script Configuration](#script-configuration) segments of this README.
>
> To further familiarize yourself with powerpkg and how it works, examining the contents of the `\example_package` directory is highly recommended.

## Package File

Package files consist of specific instructions, or task entries, that are processed by `powerpkg.ps1` at runtime.

> **NOTE**:
>
> You may have noticed that this project features both JSON (`package.json`) and CSV (`package.csv`) package files. Unfortunately, usage of `package.csv` is required for Windows systems utilizing PowerShell 2.0, as JSON support is nonexistent on said systems.
>
> If you are using PowerShell 3.0 or higher, ``package.csv`` is not required and can be deleted.

Specific instructions are stored in the form of task entries, which are presented in the following fashion:

**JSON** (PowerShell 3.0+):

```json
[
    {
        "TaskName": "",
        "Executable": "",
        "OperatingSystem": "",
        "Architecture": "",
        "TerminateProcess": "",
        "TerminateMessage": "",
        "SuccessExitCode": "",
        "ContinueIfFail": "",
        "VerifyInstall": ""
    }
]
```

**CSV** (PowerShell 2.0):

```
TaskName,Executable,OperatingSystem,Architecture,TerminateProcess,TerminateMessage,SuccessExitCode,ContinueIfFail,VerifyInstall
"","","","","","","","",""
```

For more information on the variety of parameters utilized within a task entry, refer to the Package File segment of [Section](#section) for a list of said parameters, or review the following information below:

#### `TaskName`

- **Required**: Yes
- **Purpose**: A name for an individual task entry.
- **Usage**:

```json
[
    {
        "TaskName": "Install Program"
    }
]
```

#### `Executable`

- **Required**: Yes
- **Purpose**: An executable file/path or MS-DOS command to invoke.
- **Subparamaters**:

Subparameter     | Description
------------     | -----------
`[LocalFile]`    | Specifies a file located within a package directory.

- **Usage**:

```json
[
    {
        "Executable": "mspaint.exe"
    }
]
```

```json
[
    {
        "Executable": "msiexec.exe /i \"[LocalFile]example.msi\" /qn /norestart"
    }
]
```

```json
[
    {
        "Executable": "\"[LocalFile]example.exe\""
    }
]
```

#### `OperatingSystem`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: The operating system a task entry should be processed under.
- **Usage**:

When utilizing this parameter, you will want to specify the NT kernel version number of a specific Windows operating system:

Windows Operating System | NT Kernel Version
------------------------ | -----------------
8.1                      | 6.3
8                        | 6.2
7                        | 6.1
Vista                    | 6.0

And specify a NT kernel version number in this fashion:

```json
[
    {
        "OperatingSystem": "6.3"
    }
]
```

#### `Architecture`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: The userspace architecture a task entry should be processed under.
- **Usage**:

For executable invocations that depend on a specific architectural environment, you will want to specify the following for:

**AMD64** (x64 in Microsoft terminology) environments:

```json
[
    {
        "Architecture": "AMD64"
    }
]
```

**x86** environments:

```json
[
    {
        "Architecture": "x86"
    }
]
```

#### `TerminateProcess`

- **Required**: No, except when utilizing the `TerminateMessage` parameter.
- **Purpose**: A process, or list of process, to terminate prior to executable invocation.
- **Usage**:

```json
[
    {
        "TerminateProcess": "explorer"
    },
    {
        "TerminateProcess": "explorer,notepad"
    }
]
```

#### `TerminateMessage`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: A message to display to an end-user prior to the termination of processes. Used in conjunction with the `TerminateProcess` parameter.
- **Usage**:

```json
[
    {
        "TerminateProcess": "explorer",
        "TerminateMessage": "File Explorer will terminate. When prepared, click on the OK button."
    }
]
```

#### `SuccessExitCode`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: Non-zero exit codes that also determine a successful task entry. Used in conjunction with the exit code of `0`, so manually specifying such a value is unnecessary. 
- **Usage**:

```json
[
    {
        "SuccessExitCode": "10"
    },
    {
        "SuccessExitCode": "10,777,1000"
    }
]
```

#### `ContinueIfFail`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: Specify as to whether or not to continue with remaining task entires if a specific task entry fails.
- **Usage**:

By default, an unsuccessful task entry will cause `powerpkg.ps1` to fail. When explicitly utilizing the `ContinueIfFail` parameter and specifying the following value:

Value | Result
----- | ------
True  | `powerpkg.ps1` will continue processing remaining task entires.
False | `powerpkg.ps1` will fail.

And specify your desired value in this fashion:

```json
[
    {
        "ContinueIfFail": "true"
    }
]
```

#### `VerifyInstall`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: Skip a task entry if a program, hotfix, file/directory path, or a specific version of an executable file exist.
- **Subparamaters**:

Subparameter     | Description                                                        | Additional Arguments | Additional Arguments Required?
------------     | -----------                                                        | -------------------- | ------------------------------
`[Hotfix]`       | Verify the existence of a hotfix.                                  |                      |
`[Path]`         | Verify the existence of a file or directory path.                  |                      |
`[Vers_File]`    | Verify the file version of an executable file.                     | `[Build:]`           | Yes
`[Vers_Product]` | Verify the product version of an executable file.                  | `[Build:]`           | Yes
`[Program]`      | Verify the existence of an installed program name or product code. | `[Build:]`           | No

- **Usage**:

When utilizing the `VerifyInstall` parameter, you must specify one of the following subparamaters mentioned above.

As you may have noticed, certain parameters take advantage of a **`[Build:]`** argument, which allows you to verify the existence of a specific version number associated with an installed program or executable file. To use this argument, you must specify it at the right side of a provided `VerifyInstall` value, then insert a version number on the right side of its colon. Take the following as an example:

```json
[
    {
        "VerifyInstall": "[Vers_Product]C:\\example_file.exe[Build:1.0]"
    }
]
```

To utilize the **`[Vers_*]`** subparameters, you will need to retrieve the file or product version numbers from an executable file. To do so:

  - Invoke the following command:

  ```powershell
  [System.Diagnostics.FileVersionInfo]::GetVersionInfo("C:\example_file.exe") | Select FileVersion, ProductVersion
  ```

  - And you will notice the following output:

  ```
  FileVersion       ProductVersion
  -----------       --------------
  1.0               1.0
  ```

  - Then, specify either outputted value inside the `[Build:]` argument in this fashion:
  ```json
  [
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Vers_File]C:\\example_file.exe[Build:1.0]"
      },
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Vers_Product]C:\\example_file.exe[Build:1.0]"
      }
  ]
  ```

To utilize the **`[Program]`** subparameter, you can verify the existence of a:

- **Product Code**:
  - Open the `Programs and Features` applet of the Windows Control Panel, and retrieve the name of the installed program you wish to verify the existence of:
  ![Programs and Features](/readme/example_verifyinstall_program.gif)

  - Within PowerShell, enter the following command:
  ```powershell
  Get-ChildItem HKLM:\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall | % {Get-ItemProperty $_.PSPath} | ? {$_.DisplayName -eq "Example Program"} | Select PSChildName
  ```
  
  - Within PowerShell, enter the following command, if you're utilizing a x86 program on an AMD64 system:
  ```powershell
  Get-ChildItem HKLM:\Software\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall | % {Get-ItemProperty $_.PSPath} | ? {$_.DisplayName -eq "Example Program"} | Select PSChildName
  ```
  
  - And you will notice the following output:
  ```
  PSChildName
  -----------
  {00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000}
  ```

  - Then, specify the outputted value in this fashion:
  ```json
  [
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Program]{00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000}"
      }
  ]
  ```

  - Or if you wish to verify the existence an installed program's respective version number along with its product code:
  ```json
  [
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Program]{00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000}[Build:1.0]"
      }
  ]
  ```

- **Program Name**:
  - Open the `Programs and Features` applet of the Windows Control Panel, and retrieve the name of the installed program you wish to verify the existence of:
  ![Programs and Features](/readme/example_verifyinstall_program.gif)

  - Then, specify a program name in this fashion:
  ```json
  [
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Program]Example Program"
      }
  ]
  ```

  - Or if you wish to verify the existence an installed program's respective version number along with its name:
  ```json
  [
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Program]Example Program[Build:1.0]"
      }
  ]
  ```

Here are more valid example use cases of the `VerifyInstall` parameter and its respective subparameters:

```json
[
    {
        "VerifyInstall": "[Hotfix]KB0000000"
    },
    {
        "VerifyInstall": "[Path]C:\\example_file.exe"
    },
    {
        "VerifyInstall": "[Path]C:\\example_directory"
    }
]
```

## Script Configuration

The script configuration file (`powerpkg.conf`) is not required for the utilization of `powerpkg.ps1`. When `powerpkg.conf` is nonexistent, the default values for the following parameters below are used:

Parameter            | Description                                                                                                             | Default Value | Example Value
---------            | -----------                                                                                                             | ------------- | -------------
BlockHost            | Prevents specified hosts from processing a package.                                                                     | `Null`        | `examplehost1`, `examplehost1,examplehost2`
PackageName          | Allows specifying a different package name apart from the name of the directory a package resides in.                   | `Null`        | `"Example Package"`
SuppressNotification | Prevents a balloon notification from displaying upon a successful deployment. A value of `False` changes this behavior. | `True`        | `True`, `False`

## Debugging

#### Exit Codes:

Code | Description
---- | -----------
1    | A task entry terminated with a non-zero exit status.
2    | An exception rose from a task entry.
3    | Initial task entry processing failed.
4    | A host has been blocked from processing a package.
5    | A package file was not found.
6    | No task entries were processed.
7    | A task entry is missing required information.

## License

powerpkg is licensed under the MIT license. For more information regarding this license, refer to the `LICENSE` file located at the root of this repository.

## Additional Comments

Fellow PowerShell enthusiasts, this is my contribution to you all. I hope you take advantage of this project I have worked very hard on. You guys rock!

Commit message:

powerpkg.ps1: Change behavior of ContinueIfFail parameter to not alter exit code of script if it has value of 1.

README.md, after:

# powerpkg

A Windows package deployment script with an emphasis on simplicity and standardization. Written in PowerShell.

## Section
1. [Requirement](#requirement)
2. [Philosophy](#philosophy)
3. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
4. [How It Works](#how-it-works)
5. [Package File](#package-file)
  - [TaskName](#taskname)
  - [Executable](#executable)
  - [OperatingSystem](#operatingsystem)
  - [Architecture](#architecture)
  - [TerminateProcess](#terminateprocess)
  - [TerminateMessage](#terminatemessage)
  - [SuccessExitCode](#successexitcode)
  - [ContinueIfFail](#continueiffail)
  - [VerifyInstall](#verifyinstall)
6. [Script Configuration](#script-configuration)
7. [Debugging](#debugging)
8. [License](#license)
9. [Additional Comments](#additional-comments)

## Requirement

Before reading through this documentation, please note that a minimum of **PowerShell 2.0** is required to utilize this project. However, PowerShell 3.0 or higher is recommended.

## Philosophy

**One** script to perform **all** functions.

The sole purpose of powerpkg is to enable maintainability when managing package deployments on the Windows platform. This allows an administrator to consolidate an unsustainable collection of unique scripts into one PowerShell script.

## Getting Started

To begin test driving powerpkg:

**(1)**: Clone this repository or download it as a ZIP file.

**(2)**: Invoke `powerpkg.ps1`:
```shell
powershell.exe -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -File "example_package\powerpkg.ps1"
```

**(3)**: *And that's it!*

> **NOTE**:
>
> For more information on the usage of both `package.json` and `package.csv`, refer to the [Package File](#package-file) segment of this README.
>
> To discover basic usage of powerpkg, refer to the [How It Works](#how-it-works) segment of this README.

## How It Works

**(1)**: Create one of the following [package files](#package-file):

  - **`package.json` (PowerShell 3.0+):**
  ```json
  [
      {
          "TaskName": "Example Task Entry",
          "Executable": "powershell.exe Write-Output \"Hello, World!\""
      }
  ]
  ```
  
  - **`package.csv` (PowerShell 2.0):**
  ```
  TaskName,Executable
  "Example Task Entry","powershell.exe Write-Output ""Hello, World!"""
  ```

**(2)**: Create `powerpkg.conf`, the script configuration file, with the following content:
```
BlockHost
PackageName "Example Package"
SuppressNotification False
```

**(3)**: Invoke `powerpkg.ps1`:
```shell
powershell.exe -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -File "powerpkg.ps1"
```

**(4)**: As `powerpkg.ps1` is running, you will notice output similar to the following example:
```
Initiating Package (Example Package):

Host                       : examplehost1
Operating System (Windows) : 6.3
Userspace Architecture     : AMD64
User                       : misterpeguero

----

Configuration Importation  : True
Suppress Notification      : False

----

(1) Example Task Entry:
[powershell.exe Write-Output "Hello, World!"]

Hello, World!

OK: (0)

----

Package Results (Example Package):

Tasks Processed : 1
 ^
 |
 |---- Success : 1
 +---- Failure : 0

OK: (0)
```
**(5)**: *And that's it!*

> **NOTE**:
>
> To discover in-depth usage of powerpkg, refer to the [Package File](#package-file) and [Script Configuration](#script-configuration) segments of this README.
>
> To further familiarize yourself with powerpkg and how it works, examining the contents of the `\example_package` directory is highly recommended.

## Package File

Package files consist of specific instructions, or task entries, that are processed by `powerpkg.ps1` at runtime.

> **NOTE**:
>
> You may have noticed that this project features both JSON (`package.json`) and CSV (`package.csv`) package files. Unfortunately, usage of `package.csv` is required for Windows systems utilizing PowerShell 2.0, as JSON support is nonexistent on said systems.
>
> If you are using PowerShell 3.0 or higher, ``package.csv`` is not required and can be deleted.

Specific instructions are stored in the form of task entries, which are presented in the following fashion:

**JSON** (PowerShell 3.0+):

```json
[
    {
        "TaskName": "",
        "Executable": "",
        "OperatingSystem": "",
        "Architecture": "",
        "TerminateProcess": "",
        "TerminateMessage": "",
        "SuccessExitCode": "",
        "ContinueIfFail": "",
        "VerifyInstall": ""
    }
]
```

**CSV** (PowerShell 2.0):

```
TaskName,Executable,OperatingSystem,Architecture,TerminateProcess,TerminateMessage,SuccessExitCode,ContinueIfFail,VerifyInstall
"","","","","","","","",""
```

For more information on the variety of parameters utilized within a task entry, refer to the Package File segment of [Section](#section) for a list of said parameters, or review the following information below:

#### `TaskName`

- **Required**: Yes
- **Purpose**: A name for an individual task entry.
- **Usage**:

```json
[
    {
        "TaskName": "Install Program"
    }
]
```

#### `Executable`

- **Required**: Yes
- **Purpose**: An executable file/path or MS-DOS command to invoke.
- **Subparamaters**:

Subparameter     | Description
------------     | -----------
`[LocalFile]`    | Specifies a file located within a package directory.

- **Usage**:

```json
[
    {
        "Executable": "mspaint.exe"
    }
]
```

```json
[
    {
        "Executable": "msiexec.exe /i \"[LocalFile]example.msi\" /qn /norestart"
    }
]
```

```json
[
    {
        "Executable": "\"[LocalFile]example.exe\""
    }
]
```

#### `OperatingSystem`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: The operating system a task entry should be processed under.
- **Usage**:

When utilizing this parameter, you will want to specify the NT kernel version number of a specific Windows operating system:

Windows Operating System | NT Kernel Version
------------------------ | -----------------
8.1                      | 6.3
8                        | 6.2
7                        | 6.1
Vista                    | 6.0

And specify a NT kernel version number in this fashion:

```json
[
    {
        "OperatingSystem": "6.3"
    }
]
```

#### `Architecture`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: The userspace architecture a task entry should be processed under.
- **Usage**:

For executable invocations that depend on a specific architectural environment, you will want to specify the following for:

**AMD64** (x64 in Microsoft terminology) environments:

```json
[
    {
        "Architecture": "AMD64"
    }
]
```

**x86** environments:

```json
[
    {
        "Architecture": "x86"
    }
]
```

#### `TerminateProcess`

- **Required**: No, except when utilizing the `TerminateMessage` parameter.
- **Purpose**: A process, or list of process, to terminate prior to executable invocation.
- **Usage**:

```json
[
    {
        "TerminateProcess": "explorer"
    },
    {
        "TerminateProcess": "explorer,notepad"
    }
]
```

#### `TerminateMessage`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: A message to display to an end-user prior to the termination of processes. Used in conjunction with the `TerminateProcess` parameter.
- **Usage**:

```json
[
    {
        "TerminateProcess": "explorer",
        "TerminateMessage": "File Explorer will terminate. When prepared, click on the OK button."
    }
]
```

#### `SuccessExitCode`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: Non-zero exit codes that also determine a successful task entry. Used in conjunction with the exit code of `0`, so manually specifying such a value is unnecessary. 
- **Usage**:

```json
[
    {
        "SuccessExitCode": "10"
    },
    {
        "SuccessExitCode": "10,777,1000"
    }
]
```

#### `ContinueIfFail`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: Specify as to whether or not to continue with remaining task entires if a specific task entry fails.
- **Usage**:

By default, an unsuccessful task entry will cause `powerpkg.ps1` to fail. When explicitly utilizing the `ContinueIfFail` parameter and specifying the following value:

Value | Result
----- | ------
True  | `powerpkg.ps1` will continue processing remaining task entires. A task entry set to continue when resulting in a non-zero exit code will not alter the exit code of `powerpkg.ps1`.
False | `powerpkg.ps1` will fail and result in a non-zero exit code.

And specify your desired value in this fashion:

```json
[
    {
        "ContinueIfFail": "true"
    }
]
```

#### `VerifyInstall`

- **Required**: No
- **Purpose**: Skip a task entry if a program, hotfix, file/directory path, or a specific version of an executable file exist.
- **Subparamaters**:

Subparameter     | Description                                                        | Additional Arguments | Additional Arguments Required?
------------     | -----------                                                        | -------------------- | ------------------------------
`[Hotfix]`       | Verify the existence of a hotfix.                                  |                      |
`[Path]`         | Verify the existence of a file or directory path.                  |                      |
`[Vers_File]`    | Verify the file version of an executable file.                     | `[Build:]`           | Yes
`[Vers_Product]` | Verify the product version of an executable file.                  | `[Build:]`           | Yes
`[Program]`      | Verify the existence of an installed program name or product code. | `[Build:]`           | No

- **Usage**:

When utilizing the `VerifyInstall` parameter, you must specify one of the following subparamaters mentioned above.

As you may have noticed, certain parameters take advantage of a **`[Build:]`** argument, which allows you to verify the existence of a specific version number associated with an installed program or executable file. To use this argument, you must specify it at the right side of a provided `VerifyInstall` value, then insert a version number on the right side of its colon. Take the following as an example:

```json
[
    {
        "VerifyInstall": "[Vers_Product]C:\\example_file.exe[Build:1.0]"
    }
]
```

To utilize the **`[Vers_*]`** subparameters, you will need to retrieve the file or product version numbers from an executable file. To do so:

  - Invoke the following command:

  ```powershell
  [System.Diagnostics.FileVersionInfo]::GetVersionInfo("C:\example_file.exe") | Select FileVersion, ProductVersion
  ```

  - And you will notice the following output:

  ```
  FileVersion       ProductVersion
  -----------       --------------
  1.0               1.0
  ```

  - Then, specify either outputted value inside the `[Build:]` argument in this fashion:
  ```json
  [
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Vers_File]C:\\example_file.exe[Build:1.0]"
      },
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Vers_Product]C:\\example_file.exe[Build:1.0]"
      }
  ]
  ```

To utilize the **`[Program]`** subparameter, you can verify the existence of a:

- **Product Code**:
  - Open the `Programs and Features` applet of the Windows Control Panel, and retrieve the name of the installed program you wish to verify the existence of:
  ![Programs and Features](/readme/example_verifyinstall_program.gif)

  - Within PowerShell, enter the following command:
  ```powershell
  Get-ChildItem HKLM:\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall | % {Get-ItemProperty $_.PSPath} | ? {$_.DisplayName -eq "Example Program"} | Select PSChildName
  ```
  
  - Within PowerShell, enter the following command, if you're utilizing a x86 program on an AMD64 system:
  ```powershell
  Get-ChildItem HKLM:\Software\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall | % {Get-ItemProperty $_.PSPath} | ? {$_.DisplayName -eq "Example Program"} | Select PSChildName
  ```
  
  - And you will notice the following output:
  ```
  PSChildName
  -----------
  {00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000}
  ```

  - Then, specify the outputted value in this fashion:
  ```json
  [
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Program]{00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000}"
      }
  ]
  ```

  - Or if you wish to verify the existence an installed program's respective version number along with its product code:
  ```json
  [
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Program]{00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000}[Build:1.0]"
      }
  ]
  ```

- **Program Name**:
  - Open the `Programs and Features` applet of the Windows Control Panel, and retrieve the name of the installed program you wish to verify the existence of:
  ![Programs and Features](/readme/example_verifyinstall_program.gif)

  - Then, specify a program name in this fashion:
  ```json
  [
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Program]Example Program"
      }
  ]
  ```

  - Or if you wish to verify the existence an installed program's respective version number along with its name:
  ```json
  [
      {
          "VerifyInstall": "[Program]Example Program[Build:1.0]"
      }
  ]
  ```

Here are more valid example use cases of the `VerifyInstall` parameter and its respective subparameters:

```json
[
    {
        "VerifyInstall": "[Hotfix]KB0000000"
    },
    {
        "VerifyInstall": "[Path]C:\\example_file.exe"
    },
    {
        "VerifyInstall": "[Path]C:\\example_directory"
    }
]
```

## Script Configuration

The script configuration file (`powerpkg.conf`) is not required for the utilization of `powerpkg.ps1`. When `powerpkg.conf` is nonexistent, the default values for the following parameters below are used:

Parameter            | Description                                                                                                             | Default Value | Example Value
---------            | -----------                                                                                                             | ------------- | -------------
BlockHost            | Prevents specified hosts from processing a package.                                                                     | `Null`        | `examplehost1`, `examplehost1,examplehost2`
PackageName          | Allows specifying a different package name apart from the name of the directory a package resides in.                   | `Null`        | `"Example Package"`
SuppressNotification | Prevents a balloon notification from displaying upon a successful deployment. A value of `False` changes this behavior. | `True`        | `True`, `False`

## Debugging

#### Exit Codes:

Code | Description
---- | -----------
1    | A task entry terminated with a non-zero exit code.
2    | An exception rose from a task entry during its executable invocation process.
3    | Initial task entry processing failed.
4    | A host has been blocked from processing a package.
5    | A package file was not found.
6    | No task entries were processed.
7    | A task entry is missing required information.

## License

powerpkg is licensed under the MIT license. For more information regarding this license, refer to the `LICENSE` file located at the root of this repository.

## Additional Comments

Fellow PowerShell enthusiasts, this is my contribution to you all. I hope you take advantage of this project I have worked very hard on. You guys rock!
